.\" Man page for the agenda command (forward-looking schedule view)
.\" Updated: June 2026
.TH AGENDA 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.11.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agenda \- forward-looking schedule across all projects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agenda
[\fIwindow\fR | \fIcategory\fR | \fB--overdue\fR | \fB--all\fR | \fB-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agenda
surfaces in-window and overdue dated activity across every project —
assignment due dates, exam dates, manuscript and grant deadlines, milestones,
and recurring blocks — grouped into
.BR OVERDUE ,
.BR TODAY ,
.B "THIS WEEK"
and
.B LATER
buckets, with a calm empty state when nothing is due.
.PP
Items come from two greenfield sources, with no migration required:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
A
.B "## Schedule:"
section in a project's
.B .STATUS
file (ZSH-parseable, no
.BR yq ).
.IP \(bu 2
A teaching project's
.B .flow/teach-config.yml
(week topics, exams, deadlines, holidays) — derived automatically.
.RE
.PP
.B agenda
works fully without atlas and without
.BR yq
(the teaching path is the only one that needs
.BR yq ).
When atlas is present and exposes a
.B schedule
subcommand, the collected items are pushed opportunistically and
asynchronously; otherwise the push is a silent no-op.
.SH WINDOWS
.TP
.B (none)\fR, \fB-w\fR, \fB--week
Next 7 days plus overdue (default).
.TP
.B today
Today only, plus overdue.
.TP
.B -m\fR, \fB--month
Next 30 days; adds the LATER bucket.
.TP
.B --all
No window cap; includes holidays.
.TP
.B --overdue
Overdue items only.
.TP
.B -h\fR, \fB--help
Show help.
.SH FILTERS
A filter argument matches a record's own
.I type
.RB ( research ", " teaching ", " general ", " recurring )
OR the project's detected category
.RB ( dev ", " r ", " teach ", " quarto ", " apps ).
So
.B agenda research
surfaces every item tagged
.I "| research"
no matter which project it lives in.
.RB ( teach " and " teaching " are synonyms.)"
.RS
.nf
research  teaching  general  recurring   (item type)
dev  r  teach  quarto  apps               (project category)
.fi
.RE
.SH "SCHEDULE GRAMMAR"
Lines in a project's
.B .STATUS
.B "## Schedule:"
section take the form
.IR "- <when> | <label> [| <type>]" :
.RS
.nf
## Schedule:
- 2026-06-20 | Submit JRSS-B revision | research
- 2026-07-01 | Project beta milestone | general
- weekly:fri | Grading window | recurring
- weekly:mon | Advisor meeting | research
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I when
is an ISO date
.RB ( YYYY-MM-DD )
or a recurring token
.RB ( weekly: <\fIdow\fR>).
.I type
is one of
.BR teaching ,
.BR research ,
.BR general ,
or
.BR recurring
(optional; defaults to
.B general
for dated items and
.B recurring
for
.B weekly:
tokens).
.SH ICONS
.RS
.nf
🎓 teaching   🔬 research   📌 general   🔁 recurring   🏖️ holiday
.fi
.RE
.SH ALIASES
.TP
.B agt
Equivalent to \fBagenda today\fR.
.TP
.B agw
Equivalent to \fBagenda -w\fR.
.TP
.B agm
Equivalent to \fBagenda -m\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
This week's dated items:
.RS
.nf
agenda
.fi
.RE
.PP
Only what is overdue:
.RS
.nf
agenda --overdue
.fi
.RE
.PP
Next 30 days for research projects:
.RS
.nf
agenda -m
agenda research
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dash (1),
.BR flow (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
