.\" Man page for at dispatcher (Atlas bridge)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH AT 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.10.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
at \- Atlas project intelligence bridge (optional integration)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B at
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B at
is an optional bridge to the
.B Atlas
project intelligence CLI.
When Atlas is installed, all commands are forwarded to
.BR atlas (1)
directly, with the exception of
.B at help
(which always shows the flow-cli styled help page).
.PP
When Atlas is not installed, four commands work using ZSH-native fallbacks:
.BR catch ,
.BR inbox ,
.BR where ,
and
.BR crumb .
All other commands print an install message.
.PP
Atlas availability is controlled by the
.B FLOW_ATLAS_ENABLED
environment variable. Availability is cached at session start for performance.
.PP
Install Atlas:
.RS
.nf
npm i -g @data-wise/atlas
brew install data-wise/tap/atlas
.fi
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Always Available
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show flow-cli styled help page (never shows Atlas native help).
.SS Available Without Atlas (ZSH Fallbacks)
.TP
.B catch\fR, \fBc \fItext\fR
Quick capture a thought, idea, or task into flow's quick-capture inbox.
Works with or without Atlas installed.
.TP
.B inbox\fR, \fBi
Show captured items from the quick-capture inbox.
Works with or without Atlas installed.
.TP
.B where\fR, \fBw \fR[\fIproject\fR]
Show context from the last work session: where you were, what you were
doing, recent breadcrumbs. Works with or without Atlas installed.
.TP
.B crumb\fR, \fBb \fItext\fR
Leave a breadcrumb note at the current point in your workflow to aid
context recovery later. Works with or without Atlas installed.
.SS Require Atlas
The following commands require Atlas to be installed and will print install
instructions if it is absent.
.SS Session
.TP
.B session start \fIproject\fR
Start a tracked work session for the given project.
.TP
.B session end \fR[\fInote\fR]
End the current work session with an optional summary note.
.TP
.B session status
Show current session state.
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIjson\fR
Output session status as machine-readable JSON (use with
.BR "session status" ).
.SS Capture & Triage
.TP
.B triage
Process inbox items interactively (prioritize, assign, or discard).
.TP
.B \-\-count
Output a bare integer count instead of formatted output (use with
.BR inbox ).
.SS Context
.TP
.B trail
Show the full breadcrumb trail for the current or specified project.
.TP
.B \-\-limit \fIN\fR
Limit trail output to the newest
.I N
breadcrumbs (use with
.BR trail ).
.TP
.B focus \fR[\fIproject\fR]
Set or show the current focus project.
.SS Project Management
.TP
.B stats
Show project statistics overview (velocity, completion, trends).
.TP
.B plan
Show planning view: priorities, deadlines, upcoming milestones.
.TP
.B park \fR[\fIproject\fR]
Park (pause) a project, saving its context for later resumption.
.TP
.B unpark \fR[\fIproject\fR]
Resume a previously parked project.
.TP
.B parked
List all currently parked projects.
.TP
.B dash\fR, \fBdashboard
Show a dashboard of all projects at a glance.
.TP
.B \-\-count
Output a bare integer project count instead of formatted output (use with
.BR "project list" ).
.TP
.B \-\-suggest
Output one active project name suggestion (use with
.BR "project list" ).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_ATLAS_ENABLED
Controls Atlas integration:
.RS
.TP
.B auto
(default) Use Atlas if installed; gracefully degrade if not.
.TP
.B yes
Require Atlas; do not use fallbacks.
.TP
.B no
Disable Atlas entirely even if installed; always use fallbacks.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Quick capture (works without Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at catch "Fix login bug before release"
at catch "Research alternative caching strategy"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show context from last session (works without Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at where
at where my-project
.fi
.RE
.PP
Leave a breadcrumb (works without Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at crumb "Debugging auth flow in middleware"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Project overview (requires Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at stats
at plan
at dash
.fi
.RE
.PP
Session management (requires Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at session start flow-cli
at session end "Finished man page refresh"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Park and switch projects (requires Atlas):
.RS
.nf
at park
at unpark flow-cli
at parked
.fi
.RE
.PP
Disable Atlas for a session:
.RS
.nf
FLOW_ATLAS_ENABLED=no at catch "note stored locally"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check session state in scripts (machine-readable JSON):
.RS
.nf
.B at session status --format json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Get a bare integer count of pending captures:
.RS
.nf
.B at inbox --count
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show only the 5 most recent breadcrumbs:
.RS
.nf
.B at trail --limit 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Get a bare project count or a suggestion for scripting:
.RS
.nf
.B at project list --count
.B at project list --suggest
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR teach (1),
.BR em (1),
.BR g (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
