.\" Man page for cc dispatcher (Claude Code launcher)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH CC 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cc \- Claude Code launcher and dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cc
[\fImode\fR] [\fItarget\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cc
is a smart dispatcher for launching Claude Code.
It provides flexible project navigation, mode selection, and worktree integration
with an ADHD-friendly design.
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B cc
launches Claude Code in the current directory with
.I acceptEdits
permission mode.
.PP
Both mode-first and target-first argument ordering are accepted:
.I cc yolo pick
and
.I cc pick yolo
are equivalent.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Launch Targets
.TP
.B (none)
Launch Claude Code in the current directory (acceptEdits mode).
.TP
.B .\fR, \fBhere
Explicitly launch in the current directory (acceptEdits mode).
.TP
.B pick
Open the project picker (fzf), then launch Claude Code in the selected project.
.TP
.B \fIproject\fR
Jump directly to a named project and launch Claude Code there.
.TP
.B resume\fR, \fBr
Resume a previous session (claude -r); opens session picker.
.TP
.B continue\fR, \fBc
Continue the most recent session (claude -c).
.SS Permission Modes
Modes can be specified before or after the target.
.TP
.B yolo\fR, \fBy
Launch with
.I --dangerously-skip-permissions
(skip all permission checks).
.TP
.B plan\fR, \fBp
Launch in plan mode (--permission-mode plan).
.TP
.B opus\fR, \fBo
Launch with the Opus model (--model opus --permission-mode acceptEdits).
.TP
.B haiku\fR, \fBh
Launch with the Haiku model (--model haiku --permission-mode acceptEdits).
.SS Quick Actions
.TP
.B ask \fIquestion\fR, \fBa \fIquestion\fR
Ask Claude a quick question in non-interactive print mode (claude -p).
.TP
.B file \fIfile\fR [\fIprompt\fR], \fBf \fIfile\fR [\fIprompt\fR]
Analyze a file. Pipes the file into Claude with an optional prompt
(default: "Explain this code in detail").
.TP
.B diff\fR [\fIprompt\fR], \fBd\fR [\fIprompt\fR]
Review uncommitted git changes. Pipes
.I git diff
into Claude with an optional prompt.
.TP
.B print \fIprompt\fR, \fBpr \fIprompt\fR
Non-interactive print mode (claude -p) with an arbitrary prompt.
.TP
.B rpkg \fIprompt\fR
R package context helper. Reads
.I DESCRIPTION
and prepends package context to the prompt.
Requires running inside an R package directory.
.SS Worktree Integration
.TP
.B wt \fIbranch\fR, \fBworktree \fIbranch\fR, \fBw \fIbranch\fR
Launch Claude Code in the worktree for
.IR branch .
Creates the worktree if it does not yet exist.
.TP
.B wt
(no branch) List all current worktrees.
.TP
.B wt pick
Open an fzf picker for existing worktrees, then launch Claude Code.
.TP
.B wt status\fR, \fBwt st
Show all worktrees with Claude session indicators (green = recent < 24h,
yellow = old session, white circle = no session).
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show built-in help.
.SH MODE AND TARGET COMBINATIONS
Modes and targets compose freely in either order:
.RS
.nf
cc yolo pick       Pick project, then launch YOLO mode
cc opus wt pick    Pick worktree, then launch with Opus
cc plan wt feature/auth  Plan mode in a specific worktree
.fi
.RE
.PP
Deprecated (still works but shows a warning): \fBcc wt yolo \fIbranch\fR.
Preferred form: \fBcc yolo wt \fIbranch\fR.
.SH ALIASES
.TP
.B ccw
Alias for
.IR "cc wt" .
.TP
.B ccwp
Alias for
.IR "cc wt pick" .
.TP
.B ccy
Alias for
.IR "cc yolo" .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_PROJECTS_ROOT
Root directory scanned for projects (used by the
.I pick
target).
.SH EXAMPLES
Launch Claude in current directory:
.RS
.nf
cc
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pick a project and launch with Opus model:
.RS
.nf
cc opus pick
.fi
.RE
.PP
Launch in a worktree (creates if needed):
.RS
.nf
cc wt feature/auth
.fi
.RE
.PP
Ask a quick question without opening an interactive session:
.RS
.nf
cc ask "how do I handle missing data in R?"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Review uncommitted changes:
.RS
.nf
cc diff
.fi
.RE
.PP
Analyze a file:
.RS
.nf
cc file src/main.zsh "what does this function do?"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR wt (1),
.BR tm (1),
.BR g (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
