.\" Man page for the dash command (project dashboard)
.\" Updated: June 2026
.TH DASH 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dash \- ADHD-friendly project dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dash
[\fIcategory\fR | \fB-a\fR | \fB-i\fR | \fB-w\fR [\fIseconds\fR]]
.br
.B dash
[\fB-f\fR | \fB--inventory\fR [\fIformat\fR] | \fB-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dash
prints a fast, scannable overview of what is happening across your projects:
the current session, a single high-signal "right now" suggestion, dotfile
status, quick wins, quick access, recent wins, and an
.B UPCOMING
section of forward-looking dated items (deadlines, exams, milestones, and
recurring blocks) drawn from the shared schedule engine.
.PP
The
.B UPCOMING
section appears after QUICK WINS and self-suppresses when nothing is due
within the next seven days (overdue items are always shown). It shares the
schedule engine with
.BR agenda (1)
and the cadence commands, and works fully without atlas and without
.BR yq .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B (none)
Default dashboard.
.TP
.B dev\fR, \fBr\fR, \fBresearch\fR, \fBteach\fR, \fBquarto\fR, \fBapps
Expand a single project category.
.TP
.B -a\fR, \fB--all
Show all projects (no category collapsing).
.TP
.B -i\fR, \fB--interactive
Interactive picker (fzf).
.TP
.B -w\fR, \fB--watch \fR[\fIseconds\fR]
Auto-refreshing watch mode (default interval 5 seconds).
.TP
.B --inventory \fR[\fIformat\fR]
Generate a tool inventory from
.B .STATUS
files (default format
.BR table ).
.TP
.B -f\fR, \fB--full
Full TUI dashboard (requires atlas; falls back to the standard view).
.TP
.B -h\fR, \fB--help
Show help.
.SH "UPCOMING ITEMS"
Add dated items to a project's
.B .STATUS
file under a
.B "## Schedule:"
section; see
.BR agenda (1)
for the grammar. Teaching dates are derived automatically from a project's
.BR .flow/teach-config.yml .
.SH EXAMPLES
The standard dashboard:
.RS
.nf
dash
.fi
.RE
.PP
Expand research projects, or watch the board refresh every 10 seconds:
.RS
.nf
dash research
dash -w 10
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR agenda (1),
.BR morning (1),
.BR today (1),
.BR week (1),
.BR flow (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
