.\" Man page for dots dispatcher (Dotfile Management)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH DOTS 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.10.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dots \- Dotfile management dispatcher (chezmoi wrapper)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dots
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dots
is a smart dispatcher for managing dotfiles via
.BR chezmoi (1).
It provides a consistent, ADHD-friendly interface for the most common
dotfile operations: tracking files, editing them, syncing with a remote
repository, and inspecting repository health.
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B dots
shows the current sync status: chezmoi state, last sync time, tracked
file count, modified file count, and Bitwarden vault state (if
.BR bw (1)
is installed).
.PP
Unknown commands are passed through to
.B chezmoi
directly, so
.B dots managed
is equivalent to
.BR "chezmoi managed" .
This passthrough only fires when
.B chezmoi
is installed; otherwise an error is printed.
.PP
.B chezmoi
must be installed for most operations.  Install via
.BR "brew install chezmoi" ,
then initialise with
.BR "chezmoi init" .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Status & Info
.TP
.B (none)
Show dotfiles status: sync state, last sync, tracked/modified counts,
and vault state.
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBs
Alias for the default status view.
.TP
.B size
Analyse chezmoi repository size.  Lists total size, top 10 largest
files, and warns about nested
.I .git
directories and files larger than 100 KB.
.TP
.B version\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR, \fB\-v
Show the
.B dots
dispatcher version and the installed versions of
.BR chezmoi ,
.BR bw ,
and
.BR mise .
.SS File Management
.TP
.B add \fIfile\fR
Add a file to chezmoi tracking.  Expands
.I ~
prefixes and checks whether the file is already managed.  Prints the
resulting source path and a tip to edit the file immediately.
.TP
.B edit \fIfile\fR\fR, \fBe \fIfile\fR
Edit a dotfile in
.B $EDITOR
(defaults to
.BR vim ).
Supports fuzzy file name matching against managed files.  If the file
is not tracked, offers to add it to chezmoi.  If the file does not
exist, offers to create it.  After editing, shows a diff and prompts
whether to apply immediately.
.PP
.RS
If the source file is a chezmoi template
.RI ( .tmpl )
that references Bitwarden secrets
.RB ( "{{ bitwarden ... }}" ),
.B dots edit
offers to unlock the vault before showing the diff so that secret
values are expanded in the preview.
.RE
.TP
.B diff \fR[\fIfile\fR]\fR, \fBd \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Show pending changes.  Without a file argument, shows all diffs via
.BR "chezmoi diff" .
With a file argument, resolves the path and shows just that file's diff.
.TP
.B apply \fR[\fIfile\fR] [\fB\-n\fR | \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]\fR, \fBa \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Apply pending chezmoi changes to the home directory.  Without a file
argument, applies all pending changes (with a confirmation prompt).
With
.B \-n
/
.BR \-\-dry\-run ,
shows what would change without writing anything.
.TP
.B undo
Rollback the last apply.  (Implementation pending \(em for now use
.B "chezmoi diff && chezmoi apply \-\-dry\-run"
to review before applying.)
.SS Ignore Patterns
.TP
.B ignore add \fIpattern\fR
Add a glob pattern to
.IR .chezmoiignore .
Creates the file if it does not exist.  Skips duplicates silently.
.TP
.B ignore list\fR, \fBignore ls
List all patterns in
.IR .chezmoiignore ,
numbered for readability.  This is the default when no
.B ignore
subcommand is given.
.TP
.B ignore remove \fIpattern\fR\fR, \fBignore rm \fIpattern\fR
Remove a specific pattern from
.IR .chezmoiignore .
.TP
.B ignore edit
Open
.I .chezmoiignore
directly in
.BR $EDITOR .
.SS Remote Sync
.TP
.B sync\fR, \fBpull
Pull updates from the remote chezmoi git repository.  Fetches, checks
if the local copy is behind, shows pending commits, and runs
.B chezmoi update
to apply remote changes.  Prompts before pulling if local modifications
exist.
.TP
.B push\fR, \fBp
Push local changes to the remote chezmoi git repository.  If there are
uncommitted changes in the chezmoi directory, prompts for a commit
message, commits all changes, and pushes.  If the branch is already
ahead of remote with no uncommitted changes, pushes directly.
.SS Environment Integration
.TP
.B env init
Generate a
.I .envrc
file for
.BR direnv (1)
that loads selected Bitwarden-managed secrets as environment variables
when entering the directory.  Requires
.B direnv
and an unlocked Bitwarden vault.  Adds
.I .envrc
to
.I .gitignore
automatically.
.SS Diagnostics
.TP
.B doctor\fR, \fBdr
Run dotfile management diagnostics.  (Full implementation pending;
available checks include chezmoi install, repository state, remote
configuration,
.I .chezmoiignore
presence, managed file count, repository size, large files, nested git
directories, and sync status.)  See also
.BR "flow doctor \-\-dot" .
.TP
.B init
Initialize chezmoi.  (Implementation pending \(em use
.B chezmoi init
directly.)
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show the help screen.
.SH PASSTHROUGH
Unknown commands are passed through to
.BR chezmoi (1)
when it is installed:
.RS
.nf
dots managed        -> chezmoi managed
dots source-path ~  -> chezmoi source-path ~
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Show dotfiles status:
.RS
.nf
dots
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add a file to chezmoi tracking:
.RS
.nf
dots add ~/.zshrc
.fi
.RE
.PP
Edit a dotfile (fuzzy match accepted):
.RS
.nf
dots edit .zshrc
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview pending changes without applying:
.RS
.nf
dots apply -n
.fi
.RE
.PP
Apply all pending changes:
.RS
.nf
dots apply
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pull latest dotfiles from remote:
.RS
.nf
dots sync
.fi
.RE
.PP
Push local changes to remote:
.RS
.nf
dots push
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add an ignore pattern for nested git repos:
.RS
.nf
dots ignore add '**/.git'
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all ignore patterns:
.RS
.nf
dots ignore list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Analyse repository size:
.RS
.nf
dots size
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate a direnv .envrc from Bitwarden secrets:
.RS
.nf
dots env init
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR sec (1),
.BR tok (1),
.BR chezmoi (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
