.\" Man page for em dispatcher (Email / himalaya)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH EM 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.10.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
em \- Email dispatcher (himalaya wrapper)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B em
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.br
.B em
.I ID
.br
.B em
.B -n
.I N
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B em
is a smart email dispatcher that wraps the
.B himalaya
CLI, providing ADHD-friendly email management with AI-powered composition,
fzf-based browsing, and a two-phase safety gate for destructive operations.
.PP
When called without arguments it shows a quick dashboard (unread count + 10
most recent emails).
.PP
A bare number argument reads that email directly (e.g.
.B em 42
is equivalent to
.BR "em read 42" ).
.PP
.B em -n \fIN
limits the inbox listing to N messages.
.PP
AI features use Claude by default; switch backend with
.B em ai
or set
.BR FLOW_EMAIL_AI .
All send/reply/forward operations show a preview and prompt
.B [y/N/e]
(yes / no / edit) before sending.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Inbox & Reading
.TP
.B inbox\fR, \fBi \fR[\fIN\fR]
List N recent emails (default: 25, set by FLOW_EMAIL_PAGE_SIZE).
.TP
.B read\fR, \fBr \fIID\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
Read an email by ID. Options:
.RS
.TP
.B --html
Render HTML version in terminal (w3m/lynx).
.TP
.B --md
Convert to clean Markdown via pandoc.
.TP
.B --raw
Dump raw MIME source.
.RE
.TP
.B unread\fR, \fBu
Show unread email count.
.TP
.B html \fIID\fR
Render HTML email in terminal (alias for
.BR "read --html" ).
.TP
.B dash\fR, \fBd
Quick dashboard: unread count + recent emails.
.SS Compose & Reply
.TP
.B send\fR, \fBs \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Compose a new email. Opens \fB$EDITOR\fR with a preview before sending.
.RS
.TP
.B --force
Send without preview confirmation.
.TP
.B --prompt \fIinstructions\fR
AI-compose from prompt instructions.
.TP
.B --backend \fIclaude\fR|\fIgemini\fR
Override AI backend for this operation.
.RE
.TP
.B reply\fR, \fBre \fIID\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
Reply to an email with an AI-drafted reply opened in \fB$EDITOR\fR.
.RS
.TP
.B --no-ai
Skip AI draft; open empty template.
.TP
.B --all
Reply-all.
.TP
.B --batch
Non-interactive: preview + confirm without opening editor.
.TP
.B --force
Send immediately without preview.
.TP
.B --prompt \fIinstructions\fR
Custom instructions for AI draft.
.TP
.B --backend \fIclaude\fR|\fIgemini\fR
Override AI backend for this operation.
.RE
.TP
.B forward\fR, \fBfwd \fIID\fR [\fIto\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
Forward an email.
.RS
.TP
.B --prompt \fItext\fR
AI-compose a custom forwarding note.
.TP
.B --backend \fIclaude\fR|\fIgemini\fR
Override AI backend.
.TP
.B --force
Send without preview.
.RE
.SS Search & Browse
.TP
.B find\fR, \fBf \fIquery\fR
Search emails by query string.
.TP
.B pick\fR, \fBp \fR[\fIFOLDER\fR]
Open fzf-powered email browser with preview pane.
Optional FOLDER argument restricts scope.
.SS Manage
.TP
.B delete\fR, \fBdel\fR, \fBrm \fIID\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
Move email to Trash.
.RS
.TP
.B --pick
Interactive multi-select delete via fzf.
.TP
.B --purge
Permanent delete (requires typing "yes" to confirm).
.RE
.TP
.B move\fR, \fBmv \fIID\fR [\fIFOLDER\fR]
Move email to folder. Opens fzf folder picker if FOLDER is omitted.
.TP
.B restore \fIID\fR
Restore email from Trash to INBOX.
.TP
.B flag\fR, \fBfl \fIID\fR
Star email for follow-up.
.TP
.B unflag \fIID\fR
Remove star from email.
.SS Organize
.TP
.B star \fIID\fR
Toggle starred (flagged) status.
.TP
.B starred
List all starred emails.
.TP
.B thread\fR, \fBth \fIID\fR
Show full conversation thread.
.TP
.B snooze\fR, \fBsnz \fIID\fR \fItime\fR
Snooze email. Time formats: 2h, 1d, tomorrow, monday.
.TP
.B snoozed
List all snoozed emails.
.TP
.B digest\fR, \fBdg \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Generate AI-grouped daily email summary.
.RS
.TP
.B --week
Show weekly digest instead of daily.
.RE
.SS Folders
.TP
.B create-folder\fR, \fBcf \fIname\fR
Create a new mail folder.
.TP
.B delete-folder\fR, \fBdf \fIname\fR
Delete a folder (type-to-confirm safety prompt).
.TP
.B folders
List all mail folders.
.SS Attachments
.TP
.B attach\fR, \fBa \fIID\fR
Download all attachments from an email.
.TP
.B attach list \fIID\fR
Show attachment list (name, MIME type, size).
.TP
.B attach get \fIID\fR \fIfile\fR
Download a specific named attachment.
.SS Calendar (v2.0)
.TP
.B calendar\fR, \fBcal \fIID\fR
Parse ICS attachment from email and add the event to Apple Calendar.
.SS Watch / IMAP IDLE (v2.0, experimental)
.TP
.B watch start
Start IMAP IDLE notification watcher in background.
.TP
.B watch stop
Stop the background watcher.
.TP
.B watch status
Show current watcher status.
.TP
.B watch log
Show recent notification log.
.SS AI Features
.TP
.B respond\fR, \fBresp \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Batch AI draft generation for actionable emails.
.RS
.TP
.B --review
Review and send previously generated drafts.
.RE
.TP
.B classify\fR, \fBcl \fIID\fR
Classify an email using AI (priority, category).
.TP
.B summarize\fR, \fBsum \fIID\fR
Generate a one-line AI summary of an email.
.TP
.B catch\fR, \fBc \fIID\fR
Capture an email as a task in flow's quick-capture inbox.
.TP
.B todo\fR, \fBtd \fIID\fR
Extract action items from an email and add them to flow + Reminders.app.
.TP
.B event\fR, \fBev \fIID\fR
Extract calendar events from an email and add them to flow + Calendar.app.
.SS AI Backend
.TP
.B ai
Show current AI backend setting.
.TP
.B ai claude
Switch to Claude as the AI backend.
.TP
.B ai gemini
Switch to Gemini as the AI backend.
.TP
.B ai none
Disable AI features.
.TP
.B ai toggle
Cycle through available AI backends.
.TP
.B ai auto
Enable smart per-operation AI routing.
.SS Utilities
.TP
.B html \fIID\fR
Render HTML email in terminal browser (w3m/lynx).
.TP
.B cache stats
Show AI draft cache statistics.
.TP
.B cache clear
Clear the AI draft cache.
.TP
.B doctor\fR, \fBdr
Check all email-related dependencies (himalaya, w3m/lynx, pandoc, AI CLIs).
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show help page.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_EMAIL_AI
AI backend: \fBclaude\fR (default) | \fBgemini\fR | \fBnone\fR.
.TP
.B FLOW_EMAIL_PAGE_SIZE
Default inbox page size (default: 25).
.TP
.B FLOW_EMAIL_FOLDER
Default folder (default: INBOX).
.TP
.B FLOW_EMAIL_TRASH_FOLDER
Trash folder name (default: Trash; Exchange: "Deleted Items").
.TP
.B FLOW_EMAIL_AI_TIMEOUT
AI draft timeout in seconds (default: 30).
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used for composing and editing email drafts (nvim recommended).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .flow/email.conf
Project-level email configuration (overrides global).
.TP
.I $FLOW_CONFIG_DIR/email.conf
Global email configuration.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show email dashboard:
.RS
.nf
em
.fi
.RE
.PP
Read an email:
.RS
.nf
em read 42
em 42
em read --html 42
em read --md 42
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reply with AI draft:
.RS
.nf
em reply 42
em re 42 --all
em re 42 --prompt "be brief and professional"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Compose new email:
.RS
.nf
em send
em send --prompt "write a meeting request to the team"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Browse emails with fzf:
.RS
.nf
em pick
em pick INBOX
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search emails:
.RS
.nf
em find "quarterly report"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Batch AI replies:
.RS
.nf
em respond
em respond --review
.fi
.RE
.PP
Manage folders:
.RS
.nf
em folders
em create-folder Archive
em move 42 Archive
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch AI backend:
.RS
.nf
em ai gemini
em ai claude
em ai none
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR teach (1),
.BR at (1),
.BR tok (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
