.TH FLOW-CLAUDE 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.12.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flow-claude \- Claude Code environment health checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flow claude
[\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B flow claude
subcommand audits your Claude Code environment for common configuration
drift and health issues. It checks that settings.json env exports are
mirrored in your zshrc, verifies hook scripts are present and valid,
detects memory index drift, enforces CLAUDE.md length limits, and
reports shell environment variable parity.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B check
Run all environment checks (C1\(enC5) and report results. Exits 0 if all
pass, 1 if any ERROR, 2 if any WARN (and no ERROR).
.TP
.B doctor
Alias for
.BR check .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Auto-repair safe mismatches. Currently only repairs C1 (settings parity):
adds or updates
.B export KEY=VALUE
lines in your zshrc to match
.IR ~/.claude/settings.json .
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show help and exit.
.SH CHECKS
.TP
.B C1 \(em Settings parity
Parses
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
.B .env
block via
.BR jq (1)
and compares each key against exports in your zshrc. Reports WARN on
mismatch. Repairable with
.BR \-\-fix .
.TP
.B C2 \(em Hook health
Checks that
.I ~/.claude/hooks/post-compact-reinject.sh
exists, is executable, and passes
.BR shellcheck (1)
(if installed). Reports ERROR on failure.
.TP
.B C3 \(em Memory index drift
For each
.I ~/.claude/projects/*/memory/
directory, compares the number of
.B .md
files (excluding MEMORY.md) against the count of
.B - [
index entries in MEMORY.md. Reports WARN on mismatch.
.TP
.B C4 \(em CLAUDE.md length
Reports WARN when
.I ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md
exceeds 100 lines (the configured limit from
.IR ~/.claude/rules/claude-md-length.md ).
.TP
.B C5 \(em Shell env parity
Reports INFO on whether
.B CLAUDE_AUTOCOMPACT_PCT_OVERRIDE
is exported in the current shell session. Informational only.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed.
.TP
.B 1
One or more ERROR checks failed.
.TP
.B 2
One or more WARN checks triggered, no ERRORs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run all checks:
.PP
.RS
.B flow claude check
.RE
.PP
Run checks and auto-repair settings parity:
.PP
.RS
.B flow claude check --fix
.RE
.PP
Run via the doctor alias:
.PP
.RS
.B flow claude doctor
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_CLAUDE_HOME
Override the default
.I ~/.claude
directory (used for testing).
.TP
.B FLOW_CLAUDE_ZSHRC
Override the default zshrc path (used for testing).
.TP
.B ZDOTDIR
If set, zshrc defaults to
.IR $ZDOTDIR/.zshrc .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR flow-doctor (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR shellcheck (1)
.SH AUTHOR
flow-cli contributors. See https://github.com/Data-Wise/flow-cli
