.\" Man page for flow command
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH FLOW 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flow \- ADHD-friendly workflow CLI for developers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flow
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flow
is a pure ZSH plugin providing ADHD-optimized workflow management for developers.
It offers instant workflow commands, smart dispatchers, session tracking, and
project switching with sub-10ms response times.
.PP
The flow command serves as a unified entry point for all flow-cli functionality,
though most commands also work as standalone functions.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Workflow
.TP
.B work \fIproject\fR
Start a focused work session on the specified project.
.TP
.B pick \fR[\fIcategory\fR]
Interactive project picker using fzf. Optional category filter.
.TP
.B dash \fR[\fIscope\fR]
Show project dashboard. Scope can be: all, active, dev, research, teaching.
.TP
.B finish \fR[\fInote\fR]
End the current session. Optionally commit with the provided note.
.TP
.B hop \fIproject\fR
Quick switch to another project (uses tmux).
.TP
.B why
Show current context (project, focus, session info).
.SS ADHD Helpers
.TP
.B start\fR, \fBjs
Just start - auto-picks a project to work on. Helps overcome analysis paralysis.
.TP
.B stuck
When you're blocked - provides suggestions to get unstuck.
.TP
.B focus \fR[\fItext\fR]
Get or set your current focus. Without args, shows current focus.
.TP
.B next
Get recommendation for what to work on next.
.TP
.B break \fR[\fIminutes\fR]
Take a proper break. Default: 5 minutes.
.SS Capture & Track
.TP
.B catch \fIidea\fR
Quick capture an idea to your inbox.
.TP
.B crumb \fInote\fR
Leave a breadcrumb note in the current project.
.TP
.B inbox
View your captured ideas inbox.
.TP
.B win \fItext\fR
Log an accomplishment. Provides dopamine boost!
.TP
.B status \fR[\fIaction\fR]
View or update the project's .STATUS file.
.SS Context-Aware Actions
These commands detect your project type and run appropriate tools:
.TP
.B test \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Run tests. Detects: R/testthat, npm test, pytest, cargo test, go test.
Options: --watch, --coverage, --verbose.
.TP
.B build \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Build project. Detects: Quarto, R CMD build, npm build, cargo build.
.TP
.B preview
Preview output. Opens browser for Quarto, runs npm dev for Node.
.TP
.B sync
Smart git sync: stash, pull --rebase, push, pop stash.
.TP
.B check
Health check with linting. Runs: R CMD check, eslint, ruff, cargo clippy.
.TP
.B plan \fR[\fIaction\fR]
Sprint/project planning. Actions: show, sprint, edit.
.TP
.B log \fR[\fIperiod\fR]
Activity log. Periods: today, week, recent.
.SS Timer & Routine
.TP
.B timer \fR[\fIminutes\fR]
Start a focus timer. Default: 25 minutes (Pomodoro).
.TP
.B timer status
Check remaining time on current timer.
.TP
.B timer stop
Cancel the current timer.
.TP
.B morning
Run the morning startup routine.
.SS Learning
.TP
.B learn
Start or resume the interactive tutorial.
.TP
.B learn beginner
Core workflow lessons.
.TP
.B learn medium
Productivity tools lessons.
.TP
.B learn advanced
Power features lessons.
.SS Setup & Diagnostics
.TP
.B doctor
Check all dependencies and system health.
.TP
.B doctor --fix
Interactively install missing dependencies.
.TP
.B doctor --fix -y
Auto-install all missing dependencies without prompts.
.TP
.B doctor --ai
AI-assisted troubleshooting using Claude CLI.
.TP
.B help \fR[\fIcommand\fR]
Show help. Without args, shows overview. With command, shows specific help.
.TP
.B version
Show flow-cli version.
.SH PROJECT TYPE DETECTION
Flow automatically detects project types based on files present:
.PP
.RS
.nf
DESCRIPTION        -> R package
package.json       -> Node.js
_quarto.yml        -> Quarto
pyproject.toml     -> Python
Cargo.toml         -> Rust
go.mod             -> Go
Makefile           -> Make
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_PROJECTS_ROOT
Root directory for projects. Default: ~/projects
.TP
.B FLOW_ATLAS_ENABLED
Atlas integration. Values: auto, yes, no. Default: auto
.TP
.B FLOW_QUIET
Suppress welcome message. Set to 1 to enable.
.TP
.B FLOW_DEBUG
Enable debug output. Set to 1 to enable.
.TP
.B FLOW_VERSION
Current version (read-only). Default: 3.0.0
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/.worklog
Session tracking log.
.TP
.I .STATUS
Project status file (per-project).
.TP
.I setup/Brewfile
Recommended Homebrew dependencies.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start working on a project:
.RS
.nf
flow work flow-cli
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pick a project interactively:
.RS
.nf
flow pick dev
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run tests for current project:
.RS
.nf
flow test
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sync with remote:
.RS
.nf
flow sync
.fi
.RE
.PP
End session with commit:
.RS
.nf
flow finish "completed feature"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check system health:
.RS
.nf
flow doctor
.fi
.RE
.PP
Fix missing dependencies:
.RS
.nf
flow doctor --fix
.fi
.RE
.SH SHORTCUTS
Most commands work as standalone functions:
.PP
.RS
.nf
pick dev     = flow pick dev
work foo     = flow work foo
js           = flow start
dash         = flow dash
.fi
.RE
.SH SMART DISPATCHERS
In addition to flow commands, these dispatchers are available:
.TP
.B g \fIcmd\fR
Git workflows (g status, g push, g commit)
.TP
.B r \fIcmd\fR
R package development (r test, r doc, r check)
.TP
.B qu \fIcmd\fR
Quarto publishing (qu preview, qu render)
.TP
.B mcp \fIcmd\fR
MCP server management (mcp status, mcp logs)
.TP
.B obs \fIcmd\fR
Obsidian notes (obs daily, obs search)
.PP
Use \fIdispatcher\fR help for details (e.g., r help, qu help).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR g (1),
.BR r (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR mcp (1),
.BR obs (1)
.PP
Related documentation:
.RS
.nf
https://Data-Wise.github.io/flow-cli/
https://Data-Wise.github.io/flow-cli/reference/COMMAND-QUICK-REFERENCE/
.fi
.RE
.SH WEBSITE
https://Data-Wise.github.io/flow-cli/
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Data-Wise/flow-cli/issues
.SH AUTHOR
DT
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License
