.\" Man page for g dispatcher (Git workflows)
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH G 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
g \- Git commands dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B g
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B g
is a smart dispatcher for Git workflows. It provides shortcuts for common
git operations with ADHD-friendly design. Unknown commands pass through to git.
.PP
When called without arguments, it shows short status (git status -sb).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Status & Info
.TP
.B (none)
Show short status (git status -sb).
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBs
Show full status.
.TP
.B diff\fR, \fBd
Show diff.
.TP
.B ds\fR, \fBstaged
Show staged diff.
.TP
.B log\fR, \fBl
Pretty log (20 commits, graph, decorated).
.TP
.B loga\fR, \fBla
Log all branches.
.TP
.B blame\fR, \fBbl \fIfile\fR
Show blame for file.
.SS Staging & Commits
.TP
.B add\fR, \fBa \fIfiles\fR
Add files to staging.
.TP
.B aa
Add all files (git add --all).
.TP
.B commit\fR, \fBc \fR[\fImessage\fR]
Commit. With message as argument, uses -m flag.
.TP
.B amend
Amend last commit (no edit).
.TP
.B amendm \fImessage\fR
Amend last commit with new message.
.SS Branches
.TP
.B branch\fR, \fBb
List branches.
.TP
.B ba
List all branches (including remote).
.TP
.B checkout\fR, \fBco \fIbranch\fR
Checkout branch.
.TP
.B cob \fIbranch\fR
Create and checkout new branch.
.TP
.B switch\fR, \fBsw \fIbranch\fR
Switch to branch.
.TP
.B swc \fIbranch\fR
Switch and create new branch.
.TP
.B main\fR, \fBm
Checkout main or master branch.
.SS Remote Operations
.TP
.B push\fR, \fBp
Push to remote.
.TP
.B pushu\fR, \fBpu
Push with upstream tracking (git push -u origin HEAD).
.TP
.B pull\fR, \fBpl
Pull from remote.
.TP
.B fetch\fR, \fBf
Fetch from remote.
.TP
.B fa
Fetch all remotes.
.SS Stash
.TP
.B stash\fR, \fBst
Stash changes.
.TP
.B pop\fR, \fBstp
Pop stash.
.TP
.B stl
List stashes.
.SS Reset & Undo
.TP
.B reset\fR, \fBrs
Reset.
.TP
.B undo
Undo last commit (soft reset, keeps changes).
.TP
.B unstage \fIfile\fR
Unstage file.
.TP
.B discard \fIfile\fR
Discard changes in file.
.TP
.B clean
Remove untracked files (git clean -fd).
.SS Rebase & Merge
.TP
.B rebase\fR, \fBrb
Rebase.
.TP
.B rbc
Continue rebase.
.TP
.B rba
Abort rebase.
.TP
.B merge\fR, \fBmg
Merge.
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh
Show help.
.SH PASSTHROUGH
Unknown commands are passed through to git:
.RS
.nf
g remote -v      -> git remote -v
g cherry-pick x  -> git cherry-pick x
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Quick status:
.RS
.nf
g
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add all and commit:
.RS
.nf
g aa
g commit "fix bug"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Undo last commit:
.RS
.nf
g undo
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create feature branch:
.RS
.nf
g cob feature/new-thing
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR r (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR mcp (1),
.BR obs (1),
.BR git (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
