.\" Man page for mcp dispatcher (MCP server management)
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH MCP 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mcp \- MCP server management dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mcp
is a dispatcher for managing Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers.
It provides tools for listing, testing, and navigating to MCP server projects.
.PP
When called without arguments, it lists all available MCP servers.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Actions
.TP
.B (none)
List all servers with status.
.TP
.B list\fR, \fBls\fR, \fBl
List all MCP servers.
.TP
.B cd\fR, \fBgoto\fR, \fBg \fR[\fIname\fR]
Navigate to server directory. Without name, goes to main MCP directory.
.TP
.B test\fR, \fBt \fIname\fR
Test if server runs correctly.
.TP
.B edit\fR, \fBe \fIname\fR
Open server in $EDITOR.
.TP
.B pick\fR, \fBp
Interactive server picker (requires fzf).
.SS Info & Status
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBs
Show configuration status for Desktop/CLI and Browser.
.TP
.B readme\fR, \fBr\fR, \fBdoc \fR[\fIname\fR]
View README for server (or main README if no name given).
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh
Show help.
.SH SHORT FORMS
.RS
.nf
mcp l, ls     -> list
mcp g, goto   -> cd
mcp t         -> test
mcp e         -> edit
mcp s         -> status
mcp r, doc    -> readme
mcp p         -> pick
mcp h         -> help
.fi
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.TP
.B Desktop/CLI
~/.claude/settings.json
.TP
.B Browser Extension
~/projects/dev-tools/claude-mcp/MCP_SERVER_CONFIG.json
.SH SERVER LOCATIONS
.TP
.B Main directory
~/projects/dev-tools/mcp-servers/
.TP
.B Symlinks
~/mcp-servers/<name>
.SH EXAMPLES
List all servers:
.RS
.nf
mcp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Test the shell server:
.RS
.nf
mcp test shell
.fi
.RE
.PP
Navigate to statistical-research:
.RS
.nf
mcp cd statistical-research
.fi
.RE
.PP
Interactive picker:
.RS
.nf
mcp pick
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check configuration status:
.RS
.nf
mcp status
.fi
.RE
.SH ALIASES
.TP
.B mcpp
Shortcut for 'mcp pick' (interactive picker).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR g (1),
.BR r (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR obs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
