.\" Man page for obs dispatcher (Obsidian CLI)
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH OBS 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
obs \- Obsidian CLI operations dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obs
[\fB--verbose\fR] [\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B obs
is a CLI tool for managing Obsidian vaults with AI-powered graph analysis.
It provides commands for vault discovery, statistics, and AI-assisted
note analysis.
.PP
When called without arguments, it lists all registered vaults.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --verbose\fR, \fB-v
Enable verbose output.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Primary Commands
.TP
.B (none)
List all registered vaults.
.TP
.B stats \fR[\fIvault\fR]
Show vault statistics. If vault specified, shows details for that vault.
.TP
.B discover \fIpath\fR
Find vaults in directory. Use --scan to deep scan.
.TP
.B vaults
List all vaults in database.
.SS Graph Analysis
.TP
.B analyze \fIvault_id\fR
Analyze vault graph metrics (links, orphans, clusters).
.SS AI Features
.TP
.B ai status
Show AI provider status.
.TP
.B ai setup
Interactive AI setup wizard.
.TP
.B ai test \fR[\fB--provider \fIname\fR]
Test AI providers. Optionally specify provider.
.TP
.B ai similar \fInote_id\fR
Find notes similar to specified note.
.TP
.B ai analyze \fInote_id\fR
Analyze note content with AI.
.TP
.B ai duplicates \fIvault_id\fR
Find duplicate notes in vault.
.SS Utilities
.TP
.B help \fR[\fB--all\fR]
Show help. Use --all for extended help.
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B Database
~/.config/obs/obsidian_vaults.db
.TP
.B Last vault
~/.config/obs/last_vault
.TP
.B iCloud default
~/Library/Mobile Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Required
python3, jq
.TP
.B Python packages
See requirements.txt in obsidian-cli-ops project.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all vaults:
.RS
.nf
obs
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show vault statistics:
.RS
.nf
obs stats my-notes
.fi
.RE
.PP
Discover vaults in iCloud:
.RS
.nf
obs discover ~/Library/Mobile\\ Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents
.fi
.RE
.PP
Analyze vault graph:
.RS
.nf
obs analyze my-notes
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find similar notes:
.RS
.nf
obs ai similar "2024-01-15-meeting-notes"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR g (1),
.BR r (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR mcp (1)
.SH WEBSITE
https://data-wise.github.io/obsidian-cli-ops/
.SH AUTHOR
DT
