.\" Man page for prompt dispatcher (Prompt Engine Switcher)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH PROMPT 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.10.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
prompt \- Prompt engine switcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prompt
[\fB--dry-run\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prompt
is a dispatcher for managing the active ZSH prompt engine.
It supports Powerlevel10k, Starship, and Oh My Posh.
The active engine is tracked via the
.B FLOW_PROMPT_ENGINE
environment variable.
.PP
When called without arguments (or with an unknown command),
.B prompt
displays the built-in help.
.PP
The global flag
.B --dry-run
may be placed before any subcommand to preview what changes
would be made without applying them.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Status and Listing
.TP
.B status
Show the currently active engine and list all available engines with
description and config file path.
Current engine is marked with a filled circle; others with an open circle.
.TP
.B list
Tabular view of all engines: name, active marker, and config file path.
.SS Switching
.TP
.B toggle
Interactive engine selection menu (uses
.I select
). Presents all non-current engines; validates the chosen engine before switching.
.TP
.B starship
Force-switch to Starship. Validates that
.I starship
is in
.B PATH
and that
.I ~/.config/starship.toml
exists.
.TP
.B p10k
Force-switch to Powerlevel10k. Validates that the plugin is listed in
.I ~/.config/zsh/.zsh_plugins.txt
and that
.I ~/.config/zsh/.p10k.zsh
exists.
.TP
.B ohmyposh
Force-switch to Oh My Posh. Validates that
.I oh-my-posh
is in
.B PATH
and that
.I ~/.config/ohmyposh/config.json
exists.
.SS Setup
.TP
.B setup-ohmyposh
Interactive wizard that creates a default Oh My Posh configuration at
.IR ~/.config/ohmyposh/config.json .
Asks for confirmation if the file already exists.
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show built-in help.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dry-run
Preview the actions that any switch subcommand would perform, without
applying them. Place before the subcommand:
.RS
.nf
prompt --dry-run starship
prompt --dry-run toggle
.fi
.RE
.SH SUPPORTED ENGINES
.TP
.B powerlevel10k
Feature-rich, highly customizable ZSH prompt.
Config: \fI~/.config/zsh/.p10k.zsh\fR.
.TP
.B starship
Minimal, fast Rust-based prompt.
Config: \fI~/.config/starship.toml\fR.
.TP
.B ohmyposh
Modular prompt with extensive themes.
Config: \fI~/.config/ohmyposh/config.json\fR.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_PROMPT_ENGINE
Name of the currently active prompt engine
(\fIpowerlevel10k\fR, \fIstarship\fR, or \fIohmyposh\fR).
Defaults to \fIpowerlevel10k\fR when unset or invalid.
Switching engines exports this variable and reloads the shell
(via \fIexec zsh -i\fR) in interactive sessions.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show the currently active engine:
.RS
.nf
prompt status
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch interactively:
.RS
.nf
prompt toggle
.fi
.RE
.PP
Force-switch to Starship:
.RS
.nf
prompt starship
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview a switch without making changes:
.RS
.nf
prompt --dry-run starship
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run the Oh My Posh setup wizard:
.RS
.nf
prompt setup-ohmyposh
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR tm (1),
.BR v (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
