.\" Man page for qu dispatcher (Quarto publishing)
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH QU 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
qu \- Quarto publishing dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qu
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qu
is a smart dispatcher for Quarto publishing workflows. It provides
shortcuts for common Quarto operations with ADHD-friendly design.
.PP
When called without arguments, it performs the smart default workflow:
render, then preview, then auto-open browser.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Commands
.TP
.B (none)
Smart default: render -> preview -> open browser at localhost:4200.
.TP
.B preview\fR, \fBp
Start preview server and open browser.
.TP
.B render\fR, \fBr
Render document/project.
.TP
.B check\fR, \fBc
Check Quarto installation.
.TP
.B clean
Remove _site/, *_cache/, *_files/ directories.
.TP
.B publish
Publish to web hosting.
.SS Format-Specific Rendering
.TP
.B pdf
Render to PDF.
.TP
.B html
Render to HTML.
.TP
.B docx
Render to Word document.
.SS Project Creation
.TP
.B new\fR, \fBn \fIname\fR
Create new Quarto project.
.TP
.B article \fIname\fR
Create article project.
.TP
.B present\fR, \fBpresentation \fIname\fR
Create presentation project.
.TP
.B serve\fR, \fBs
Serve project (alias for preview).
.SS Combined Workflows
.TP
.B commit \fR[\fImessage\fR]
Render and commit changes.
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh
Show help.
.SH SMART DEFAULT WORKFLOW
When called without arguments:
.PP
.RS
.nf
1. Renders current Quarto document
2. Starts preview server (--no-browser)
3. Auto-opens browser at http://localhost:4200
4. Skips preview if render fails
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Smart default (render + preview):
.RS
.nf
qu
.fi
.RE
.PP
Just preview with live reload:
.RS
.nf
qu preview
.fi
.RE
.PP
Render to PDF:
.RS
.nf
qu pdf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create new project:
.RS
.nf
qu new my-blog
.fi
.RE
.PP
Render and commit:
.RS
.nf
qu commit "Update chapter 2"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR g (1),
.BR r (1),
.BR mcp (1),
.BR obs (1),
.BR quarto (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
