.\" Man page for r dispatcher (R package development)
.\" Generated: 2025-12-26
.TH R 1 "December 2025" "flow-cli 3.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
r \- R package development dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B r
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B r
is a smart dispatcher for R package development workflows. It provides
shortcuts for common devtools operations with ADHD-friendly design.
.PP
When called without arguments, it launches the R console (radian if available).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Workflow
.TP
.B (none)
Launch R console (radian --quiet or R --quiet).
.TP
.B load\fR, \fBl
Load package into memory (devtools::load_all).
.TP
.B test\fR, \fBt
Run all tests (devtools::test).
.TP
.B doc\fR, \fBd
Generate documentation (devtools::document).
.TP
.B check\fR, \fBc
Run R CMD check (devtools::check).
.TP
.B build\fR, \fBb
Build package (devtools::build).
.TP
.B install\fR, \fBi
Install package (devtools::install).
.SS Combined Workflows
.TP
.B cycle
Full development cycle: doc -> test -> check.
.TP
.B quick\fR, \fBq
Quick iteration: load -> test.
.SS Quality
.TP
.B cov
Generate coverage report (covr::package_coverage).
.TP
.B spell
Spell check package (spelling::spell_check_package).
.SS Documentation
.TP
.B pkgdown\fR, \fBpd
Build pkgdown site.
.TP
.B preview\fR, \fBpv
Preview pkgdown site.
.SS CRAN Checks
.TP
.B cran
Check as CRAN (--as-cran flag).
.TP
.B fast
Fast check (skip examples, tests, vignettes).
.TP
.B win
Check on Windows development version.
.SS Version Bumps
.TP
.B patch
Bump patch version (0.0.X).
.TP
.B minor
Bump minor version (0.X.0).
.TP
.B major
Bump major version (X.0.0).
.SS Cleanup
.TP
.B clean\fR, \fBcl
Remove .Rhistory and .RData files.
.TP
.B deep\fR, \fBdeepclean
Deep clean: remove man/, NAMESPACE, docs/ (with confirmation).
.TP
.B tex\fR, \fBlatex
Remove LaTeX build files (*.aux, *.log, etc.).
.TP
.B commit\fR, \fBsave
Document, test, and commit changes.
.SS Information
.TP
.B info
Package info summary.
.TP
.B tree
Package structure tree.
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh
Show help.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run all tests:
.RS
.nf
r test
.fi
.RE
.PP
Full development cycle:
.RS
.nf
r cycle
.fi
.RE
.PP
Quick iteration loop:
.RS
.nf
r load && r test
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build pkgdown site:
.RS
.nf
r pkgdown
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check for CRAN:
.RS
.nf
r cran
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR g (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR mcp (1),
.BR obs (1),
.BR R (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
