.TH SCRIBE 1 "December 2025" "scribe 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
scribe \- terminal-based note access for Scribe app
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scribe
.I command
[\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scribe
provides terminal access to notes stored in the Scribe app database.
Designed for ADHD-friendly quick capture and note management from the command line.
.PP
The CLI operates directly on the SQLite database, enabling fast note creation,
search, and editing without launching the GUI application.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Note Management
.TP
.B new \fItitle\fR
Create a new note in the inbox folder.
.TP
.B daily\fR, \fBd
Open or create today's daily note. Creates with template if new.
.TP
.B capture\fR, \fBc \fR[\fItext\fR]
Quick capture a thought to inbox. Reads from stdin if no text provided.
.TP
.B open\fR, \fBo \fR[\fItitle\fR]
Open a note in the Scribe GUI app. Without arguments, just opens Scribe.
.TP
.B edit\fR, \fBe \fItitle\fR
Edit note content in $EDITOR (defaults to vim).
.SS Search & Browse
.TP
.B search\fR, \fBs \fIquery\fR
Full-text search notes using FTS5. Shows snippets with highlighted matches.
.TP
.B list\fR, \fBls \fR[\fIfolder\fR]
List recent notes. Optionally filter by folder.
.TP
.B tags\fR, \fBt
List all tags with note counts.
.TP
.B folders\fR, \fBf
List all folders with note counts.
.TP
.B stats
Show statistics (total notes, words, folders, tags).
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show usage information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-project\fR, \fB\-f \fIfolder\fR
Filter list by folder name.
.TP
.B \-\-limit\fR, \fB\-l \fInumber\fR
Limit number of results (default: 20).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a new note:
.B scribe new "Meeting Notes"
.TP
Open today's daily note:
.B scribe daily
.TP
Quick capture from command line:
.B scribe capture "Remember to buy milk"
.TP
Capture from pipe:
.B echo "idea" | scribe capture
.TP
Search for notes:
.B scribe search "ADHD focus"
.TP
List inbox notes:
.B scribe list inbox
.TP
List with limit:
.B scribe list --limit 5
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used for \fBscribe edit\fR command. Defaults to vim.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/com.scribe.app/scribe.db
SQLite database containing all notes, tags, and metadata.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/functions/scribe.zsh
ZSH function providing the scribe command.
.SH ALIASES
The following aliases are defined when scribe.zsh is sourced:
.TP
.B sd
scribe daily
.TP
.B sc
scribe capture
.TP
.B ss
scribe search
.TP
.B sl
scribe list
.TP
.B sn
scribe new
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (database not found, invalid command, operation failed).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sqlite3 (1),
.BR obs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT <dt@example.com>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/dt/scribe/issues
