.\" Man page for sec dispatcher (Secret Management)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH SEC 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sec \- Secret management dispatcher (Keychain and Bitwarden)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sec
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sec
is a smart dispatcher for managing secrets stored in macOS Keychain and
optionally Bitwarden.  It provides instant local access via Keychain
(protected by Touch ID / system password) and cloud sync to Bitwarden
for multi-machine setups.
.PP
The default backend is
.B keychain
(macOS Keychain only).  Set
.B FLOW_SECRET_BACKEND=both
to enable mirroring to Bitwarden, or
.B FLOW_SECRET_BACKEND=bitwarden
for the legacy Bitwarden-only mode.
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B sec
shows the help screen.
.PP
When called with an unrecognised first argument that does not match any
subcommand,
.B sec
treats it as a secret name and retrieves the value from Keychain \(em
equivalent to
.BR "sec get \fIname\fR" .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_SECRET_BACKEND
Selects the secret storage backend.  Values:
.B keychain
(default),
.B bitwarden
(legacy),
.B both
(Keychain primary + Bitwarden mirror for cloud sync).
.TP
.B BW_SESSION
Bitwarden session token exported after a successful
.BR "sec unlock" .
Required for all Bitwarden operations.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Keychain \(em Retrieve
.TP
.B \fIname\fR
Retrieve a secret by name from Keychain (default action when no
subcommand is recognised).  Equivalent to
.BR "sec get \fIname\fR" .
.TP
.B get \fIname\fR
Explicitly retrieve a named secret from Keychain.
.TP
.B list\fR, \fBls
List all secrets stored in Keychain under the flow-cli service.
.SS Keychain \(em Manage
.TP
.B add \fIname\fR
Store a new secret in Keychain.  Prompts for the secret value
(hidden input).  Alias:
.BR new .
.TP
.B delete \fIname\fR
Remove a named secret from Keychain.  Aliases:
.BR rm ,
.BR remove .
.SS Bitwarden \(em Vault Access
.TP
.B unlock\fR, \fBu
Unlock the Bitwarden vault.  Prompts for the master password,
exports
.B BW_SESSION
to the current shell, and caches the session (15-minute idle
timeout).  Required before any Bitwarden operations.
.TP
.B lock\fR, \fBl
Lock the Bitwarden vault and clear the session cache.
.TP
.B bw \fIname\fR
Retrieve a named secret directly from Bitwarden (bypasses Keychain).
.TP
.B bw list\fR | \fBbw ls
List all items in the Bitwarden vault (requires unlock).
.TP
.B bw add \fIname\fR [\fB\-\-expires\fR \fIdays\fR] [\fB\-\-notes\fR \fItext\fR]
Add a secret to Bitwarden with optional expiration tracking and notes.
.TP
.B bw check\fR | \fBbw expiring
Check expiration status of Bitwarden secrets that have dot metadata.
Warns about secrets expiring within 30 days and marks expired ones.
.TP
.B check
Alias for
.BR "sec bw check" .
.SS Sync (Keychain \(lz\(ra Bitwarden)
.TP
.B sync
Interactive sync wizard.  Shows the current state of both backends and
prompts for direction (Keychain \(-> Bitwarden or Bitwarden \(-> Keychain).
.TP
.B sync \-\-status\fR | \fBsync status
Show differences between Keychain and Bitwarden without writing anything.
.TP
.B sync \-\-to\-bw\fR | \fBsync push
Push all Keychain secrets to Bitwarden.
.TP
.B sync \-\-from\-bw\fR | \fBsync pull
Pull all Bitwarden secrets into Keychain.
.SS Dashboard & Overview
.TP
.B status
Show the current backend configuration (active backend, Keychain
location, secret count, Bitwarden vault state, and the
.B FLOW_SECRET_BACKEND
value).
.TP
.B dashboard
Full secrets overview with expiry status table for all
dot-managed secrets in Bitwarden.
.TP
.B dashboard sync github
Sync selected dot-managed secrets as GitHub Actions secrets for the
current git repository.  Converts names to SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE.
Requires
.B gh
CLI and Bitwarden unlocked.
.SS Diagnostics & Utilities
.TP
.B doctor\fR, \fBdr
Secret-specific diagnostics.  Full implementation pending; see
.B "flow doctor \-\-dot"
for the current dotfile health check.
.TP
.B import
Import secrets from a file into Keychain.
.TP
.B tutorial
Run the interactive secret management tutorial.
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show the help screen.
.SH EXAMPLES
Get a secret value:
.RS
.nf
sec MY_SECRET
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy a secret to the clipboard:
.RS
.nf
sec MY_SECRET | pbcopy
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a secret in a command without exposing it in shell history:
.RS
.nf
GITHUB_TOKEN=$(sec MY_TOKEN_NAME) gh pr list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add a new secret:
.RS
.nf
sec add DEPLOY_KEY
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all secrets:
.RS
.nf
sec list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Delete a secret:
.RS
.nf
sec delete OLD_SECRET
.fi
.RE
.PP
Unlock the Bitwarden vault:
.RS
.nf
sec unlock
.fi
.RE
.PP
Lock the vault:
.RS
.nf
sec lock
.fi
.RE
.PP
Retrieve a secret directly from Bitwarden:
.RS
.nf
sec bw MY_SECRET
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check for expiring secrets in Bitwarden:
.RS
.nf
sec check
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sync Keychain secrets to Bitwarden:
.RS
.nf
sec sync --to-bw
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show backend configuration:
.RS
.nf
sec status
.fi
.RE
.PP
View the secrets dashboard:
.RS
.nf
sec dashboard
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR tok (1),
.BR dots (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
