.\" Man page for teach dispatcher (Teaching Workflow)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH TEACH 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.11.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
teach \- Teaching workflow dispatcher (Scholar integration)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B teach
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B teach
is a comprehensive teaching workflow dispatcher that wraps the Scholar
Claude Code plugin for AI-powered course content generation.
It provides commands for creating lectures, slides, exams, quizzes,
assignments, syllabi, rubrics, and more.
.PP
When called without arguments (or with
.B help
), it shows the help page along with a health indicator dot reflecting
the last
.B teach doctor
run result.
.PP
Commands are grouped into two categories: Scholar wrappers (which
invoke Claude + Scholar for AI-generated content) and local commands
(which run entirely without Claude).
.PP
All content generation commands accept universal content flags
(\fB--explanation\fR, \fB--math\fR, \fB--examples\fR, \fB--code\fR, \fB--diagrams\fR,
\fB--practice-problems\fR, \fB--references\fR, \fB--proof\fR, \fB--definitions\fR)
and selection flags (\fB--topic\fR/\fB-t\fR, \fB--week\fR/\fB-w\fR, \fB--style\fR, \fB--interactive\fR/\fB-i\fR).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Content Generation (Scholar Wrappers)
.TP
.B lecture\fR, \fBlec \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a lecture document. Accepts content flags and style presets
(conceptual, computational, rigorous, applied).
.TP
.B slides\fR, \fBsl \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate presentation slides. Flags: \fB--theme\fR (default|academic|minimal),
\fB--from-lecture\fR, \fB--format\fR (quarto|markdown).
.TP
.B exam\fR, \fBe \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate an exam. Flags: \fB--questions\fR, \fB--duration\fR, \fB--types\fR,
\fB--format\fR (quarto|qti|markdown).
.TP
.B quiz\fR, \fBq \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a quiz. Flags: \fB--questions\fR, \fB--time-limit\fR,
\fB--format\fR (quarto|qti|markdown).
.TP
.B assignment\fR, \fBhw \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a homework assignment. Flags: \fB--due-date\fR, \fB--points\fR,
\fB--format\fR (quarto|markdown).
.TP
.B syllabus\fR, \fBsyl \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a course syllabus. Flags: \fB--format\fR (quarto|markdown|pdf).
.TP
.B rubric\fR, \fBrb \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a grading rubric. Flags: \fB--criteria\fR, \fB--format\fR (quarto|markdown).
.TP
.B feedback\fR, \fBfb \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate student feedback.
.TP
.B demo \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a live demo script or notebook.
.TP
.B solution\fR, \fBsol \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate a solution document for an assignment or exam.
.TP
.B sync \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Sync content with Scholar (merges production into draft branch).
.TP
.B validate-r\fR, \fBvr \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Validate R code blocks in course documents via Scholar.
.SS Setup & Initialization
.TP
.B init\fR, \fBi
Initialize a new course project. Creates \fB.flow/teach-config.yml\fR
and directory structure.
.TP
.B migrate-config\fR, \fBmigrate
Migrate embedded weeks from \fBteach-config.yml\fR into a standalone
\fB.flow/lesson-plans.yml\fR file.
.SS Deployment
.TP
.B deploy\fR, \fBd \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Deploy the course website. Options:
.RS
.TP
.B --direct
Fast direct merge deploy (8\(en15s, bypasses PR).
.TP
.B --dry-run
Simulate deployment without publishing.
.TP
.B --history \fR[\fIN\fR]
Show last N deployments (default: 10).
.TP
.B --rollback \fR[\fIN\fR]
Roll back to Nth previous deployment.
.TP
.B --sync
Merge production into draft (ff-only first, then regular merge).
.TP
.B --ci
CI-mode output (no color, exits non-zero on failure).
.RE
.TP
.B archive\fR, \fBa
Archive current course materials using the backup system.
.TP
.B backup\fR, \fBbk
Manage course backups.
.SS Health Check
.TP
.B doctor\fR, \fBdoc \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Run health check. Two modes:
.RS
.TP
.B (default)
Quick mode: checks CLI deps, R + renv, config, git, Scholar config (< 3s).
.TP
.B --full
Full mode: adds per-package R checks, Quarto ext, Scholar, hooks, cache,
macros, and style (11 categories total).
.TP
.B --brief
One-line summary output.
.TP
.B --fix
Interactive repair: offers renv vs system install for missing R packages.
.TP
.B --json
Machine-readable JSON output.
.TP
.B --ci
CI mode: exits non-zero on failure, no color.
.TP
.B --verbose
Verbose output.
.RE
.SS Validation
.TP
.B validate\fR, \fBval
Validate course content (links, math blocks, YAML front matter, R code).
Requires Quarto and project configuration.
.TP
.B analyze\fR, \fBconcept\fR, \fBconcepts
Analyze course documents for concept coverage, concept graphs, and
prerequisite chains.
.SS Lesson Plans
.TP
.B plan\fR, \fBpl \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage lesson plans. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B create \fIweek\fR
Create a lesson plan for the given week.
.TP
.B list
List all lesson plans.
.TP
.B show \fIweek\fR
Show the lesson plan for a specific week.
.TP
.B edit \fIweek\fR
Edit the lesson plan for a specific week.
.TP
.B delete \fIweek\fR
Delete the lesson plan for a specific week.
.RE
.SS Content Organization
.TP
.B templates\fR, \fBtmpl\fR, \fBtpl \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage content templates stored in \fB.flow/templates/\fR.
Subcommands: list, create, edit, delete.
.TP
.B macros\fR, \fBmacro\fR, \fBm \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage LaTeX macros for consistent mathematical notation.
Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B list
List all macros.
.TP
.B sync
Synchronize macros across documents.
.TP
.B export
Export macros to a file.
.RE
.TP
.B prompt\fR, \fBpr \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage AI prompt templates (3-tier resolution: local, course, global).
Subcommands: list, show, edit, validate, export.
.SS Style & Profiles
.TP
.B style\fR, \fBst \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage teaching styles. Available presets:
.RS
.TP
.B conceptual
Explanation + definitions + examples (intuition-focused).
.TP
.B computational
Explanation + examples + code + practice (hands-on, lab-style).
.TP
.B rigorous
Definitions + explanation + math + proof (graduate-level).
.TP
.B applied
Explanation + examples + code + practice (real-world applications).
.RE
.TP
.B profiles\fR, \fBprofile\fR, \fBprof \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage course profiles (saved configuration sets). Subcommands:
list, create, switch, delete.
.SS Status & Info
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBs
Show current course project status dashboard.
.TP
.B week\fR, \fBw \fIweek\fR
Show status and materials for a specific week.
.TP
.B map
Show the ecosystem map of course tools and integrations (v6.6.0+).
.TP
.B dates
Manage course date schedules (semester start, holidays, deadlines).
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B config\fR, \fBc \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage course configuration (\fB.flow/teach-config.yml\fR). Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B check
Validate configuration against JSON schema (strict mode).
.TP
.B diff
Show diff between current and reference configuration.
.TP
.B show
Display current configuration.
.TP
.B scaffold
Generate a scaffold configuration file.
.TP
.B --view
View configuration in pager.
.TP
.B --cat
Print raw configuration to stdout.
.RE
.SS Git Hooks
.TP
.B hooks\fR, \fBhook \fR[\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage git hooks for teaching workflow (pre-commit math validation, etc.).
Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B install\fR, \fBi
Install git hooks.
.TP
.B upgrade\fR, \fBup
Upgrade hooks to latest version.
.TP
.B uninstall\fR, \fBremove\fR, \fBrm
Remove git hooks.
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBcheck\fR, \fBs
Check current hook status.
.RE
.SS Cache & Cleanup
.TP
.B cache\fR [\fIsubcmd\fR]
Manage AI result caches and build caches.
Subcommands: stats, clear, warm.
.TP
.B clean\fR, \fBcl
Delete \fB_freeze/\fR and \fB_site/\fR build artifacts.
.SH CONTENT FLAGS
Universal content flags accepted by all Scholar-wrapper commands:
.TP
.B --explanation\fR, \fB-e
Include conceptual explanations.
.TP
.B --math\fR, \fB-m
Use formal mathematical notation.
.TP
.B --examples\fR, \fB-x
Include worked numerical examples.
.TP
.B --code\fR, \fB-c
Include code demonstrations (R/Python).
.TP
.B --diagrams\fR, \fB-d
Include visual diagrams and plots.
.TP
.B --practice-problems\fR, \fB-p
Include practice exercises.
.TP
.B --references\fR, \fB-r
Include citations and references.
.TP
.B --proof
Include mathematical proofs.
.TP
.B --definitions
Include formal definitions.
.PP
Prefix any flag with
.B --no-
to explicitly exclude that element (e.g., \fB--no-examples\fR).
.SH SELECTION FLAGS
.TP
.B --topic \fItopic\fR\fR, \fB-t \fItopic\fR
Specify a topic string directly.
.TP
.B --week \fIN\fR\fR, \fB-w \fIN\fR
Use week N from the lesson plan schedule.
.TP
.B --style \fIpreset\fR
Apply a content style preset (conceptual, computational, rigorous, applied).
.TP
.B --interactive\fR, \fB-i
Launch interactive wizard for topic and style selection.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize a new course:
.RS
.nf
teach init
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate lecture for week 3:
.RS
.nf
teach lecture --week 3
teach lecture -w 3 --style computational
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate an exam with 10 questions:
.RS
.nf
teach exam --topic "Regression" --questions 10
teach exam -t "Regression" --format qti
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate slides with custom content flags:
.RS
.nf
teach slides -w 5 --math --examples --no-code
.fi
.RE
.PP
Interactive content generation:
.RS
.nf
teach lecture --interactive
.fi
.RE
.PP
Deploy with PR workflow:
.RS
.nf
teach deploy
teach deploy --direct   # fast merge, skip PR
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run health check:
.RS
.nf
teach doctor
teach doctor --full
teach doctor --fix
.fi
.RE
.PP
Manage lesson plans:
.RS
.nf
teach plan create 8
teach plan list
teach plan show 8
.fi
.RE
.PP
Manage macros:
.RS
.nf
teach macros list
teach macros sync
.fi
.RE
.PP
Validate configuration:
.RS
.nf
teach config check
teach config show
teach config scaffold
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .flow/teach-config.yml
Course configuration file (JSON Schema validated).
.TP
.I .flow/lesson-plans.yml
Lesson plan schedule (week topics, styles, objectives).
.TP
.I .flow/templates/
Content templates (prompts, metadata, checklists).
.TP
.I .flow/doctor-status.json
Cached health status used by the health indicator dot.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_PROJECTS_ROOT
Root directory for project scanning.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR em (1),
.BR at (1),
.BR g (1),
.BR qu (1),
.BR r (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
