.\" Man page for tm dispatcher (Terminal Manager)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH TM 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.12.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tm \- Terminal manager dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tm
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tm
is a dispatcher for terminal management.
It provides instant shell-native commands (no Python required) for common
terminal operations and delegates richer features to the
.B aiterm
Python CLI (invoked as
.BR ait ).
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B tm
shows the built-in help.
.PP
If
.B aiterm
is not installed, all subcommands except shell-native ones print an
installation hint. Unknown subcommands are passed through to
.B ait
directly.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Shell-Native Commands (instant, no Python)
.TP
.B title \fItext\fR, \fBt \fItext\fR
Set the terminal tab/window title using the universal OSC 2 escape sequence.
Works in any terminal that supports OSC 2.
.TP
.B profile \fIname\fR, \fBp \fIname\fR
Switch the iTerm2 profile to
.IR name .
Has no effect (and prints an error) when run outside iTerm2.
.TP
.B var \fIkey\fR \fIvalue\fR, \fBv \fIkey\fR \fIvalue\fR
Set an iTerm2 user variable for use in the iTerm2 status bar.
Requires iTerm2; not supported in other terminals.
.TP
.B which\fR, \fBw
Detect and print the name of the current terminal emulator
(iterm2, ghostty, wezterm, kitty, alacritty, vscode, terminal, or unknown).
.SS Aiterm Delegation Commands
These subcommands require
.B aiterm
(install: \fIbrew install data-wise/tap/aiterm\fR).
.TP
.B ghost\fR [\fIsubcmd\fR], \fBg\fR [\fIsubcmd\fR], \fBghostty\fR [\fIsubcmd\fR]
Ghostty-specific controls. Notable sub-subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B theme \fIname\fR
Set the Ghostty theme.
.TP
.B font\fR [\fIname\fR]
Get or set the Ghostty font.
.RE
Requires aiterm >= 0.3.9.
.TP
.B switch\fR, \fBs
Apply terminal context for the current project (delegates to
.IR "ait switch" ).
.TP
.B detect\fR, \fBd
Detect the current project context (delegates to
.IR "ait detect" ).
.TP
.B doctor
Check terminal health. Uses
.I ait terminals doctor
(aiterm >= 0.3.9) or falls back to
.IR "ait doctor" .
.TP
.B status
Display detected terminal information (delegates to
.IR "ait terminals detect" ).
.TP
.B compare
Compare terminal feature sets (requires aiterm >= 0.3.9).
.TP
.B features \fR[\fIargs\fR]
Show terminal feature details (delegates to
.IR "ait terminals features" ).
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show built-in help.
.SH ALIASES
.TP
.B tmt
Alias for
.IR "tm title" .
.TP
.B tmp
Alias for
.IR "tm profile" .
.TP
.B tmv
Alias for
.IR "tm var" .
.TP
.B tmw
Alias for
.IR "tm which" .
.TP
.B tmg
Alias for
.IR "tm ghost" .
.TP
.B tms
Alias for
.IR "tm switch" .
.TP
.B tmd
Alias for
.IR "tm detect" .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TERM_PROGRAM
Used to detect the running terminal emulator.
.TP
.B KITTY_WINDOW_ID
Set by Kitty; used in terminal detection.
.TP
.B ALACRITTY_WINDOW_ID
Set by Alacritty; used in terminal detection.
.TP
.B TM_AUTO_SWITCH
When set, enables automatic
.I tm switch
on directory change (chpwd hook).
.SH EXAMPLES
Set the window title:
.RS
.nf
tm title "Feature XYZ"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch to a named iTerm2 profile:
.RS
.nf
tm profile dev
.fi
.RE
.PP
Identify the active terminal:
.RS
.nf
tm which
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set a Ghostty theme:
.RS
.nf
tm ghost theme catppuccin
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check terminal health:
.RS
.nf
tm doctor
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR cc (1),
.BR wt (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
