.\" Man page for tok dispatcher (Token Management)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH TOK 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.8.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tok \- Token lifecycle management dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tok
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-sync\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tok
is a smart dispatcher for API token lifecycle management. It provides
interactive creation wizards, expiration tracking, rotation workflows, and
automatic fan-out to GitHub Actions secrets.
.PP
Tokens are stored in macOS Keychain (default) and optionally mirrored to
Bitwarden for cloud backup. Each token is stored with JSON metadata
(version, type, creation date, expiration) to enable fast expiration
checks without decrypting the token value.
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B tok
shows the help screen.
.PP
The flag
.B \-\-no\-sync
may be passed anywhere on the command line to suppress the automatic
post-store/post-rotate GitHub Actions secret fan-out for that invocation.
The environment variable
.B FLOW_TOK_AUTOSYNC
provides a persistent override (set to
.B 0
to disable auto-sync globally).
.PP
The flag
.B \-\-refresh
(or
.BR \-r )
may be placed anywhere on the command line to trigger rotation of an
existing named token.  For example:
.B tok my-token \-\-refresh
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_TOK_AUTOSYNC
Controls automatic fan-out of newly stored or rotated tokens to
configured GitHub Actions secrets.  Set to
.B 0
to disable globally.  Default: enabled (equivalent to
.BR 1 ).
Per-invocation override: pass
.B \-\-no\-sync
on the command line.
.TP
.B FLOW_SECRET_BACKEND
Selects the secret storage backend.  Values:
.B keychain
(default \- macOS Keychain only),
.B bitwarden
(Bitwarden only, legacy),
.B both
(Keychain primary + Bitwarden mirror).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Token Wizards
Interactive guided flows that open the provider's website, validate the
token, store it with expiry metadata, and auto-sync to GitHub Actions.
.TP
.B github\fR, \fBgh
GitHub Personal Access Token wizard.  Prompts for PAT type (classic
.I ghp_*
or fine-grained
.I github_pat_*
), opens GitHub in the browser, validates the token against
.I api.github.com
, and stores it in Keychain/Bitwarden with expiry metadata.
.TP
.B npm
NPM access token wizard.  Prompts for token type (automation,
read-only, or granular access), opens npmjs.com, validates format
.RI ( npm_*
prefix), and stores the token.
.TP
.B pypi\fR, \fBpip
PyPI API token wizard.  Prompts for scope (account-wide or
project-scoped), opens pypi.org, validates format
.RI ( pypi-
prefix), and stores the token.  Note: for CI/CD, consider PyPI
Trusted Publishing (GitHub OIDC) instead.
.SS Expiration & Rotation
.TP
.B expiring
Check expiration status of stored tokens.  Queries the GitHub API to
detect expired or nearly-expired tokens (< 7 days remaining on a
90-day window).  Offers to launch
.B tok rotate
interactively.
.TP
.B rotate \fR[\fIname\fR]
Rotate an existing token.  Backs up the current token, launches the
provider wizard to create a new one, validates it, optionally prompts
for old-token revocation, then auto-syncs the new value to
configured GitHub Actions secrets.  Defaults to
.IR github-token .
.TP
.IB name " \-\-refresh"
Rotate a specific named token without going through
.BR tok rotate .
Looks up the token in the vault, determines its provider type (github,
npm, or pypi) from stored metadata, opens the provider's token page,
and updates the vault entry with a new value.
.SS Sync
.TP
.B sync gh\fR | \fBsync github
Re-authenticate the
.B gh
CLI using the stored
.I github-token
from Keychain.  Reads the token via
.B sec
and pipes it to
.BR "gh auth login \-\-with\-token" .
.TP
.B sync push \fIname\fR
Fan out a named token to all configured GitHub Actions secret targets.
Reads the token value from the vault and calls
.B gh secret set
for each configured repository/secret mapping.  This is the same
fan-out triggered automatically after
.B tok github
(or any wizard) unless suppressed with
.B \-\-no\-sync
/
.BR FLOW_TOK_AUTOSYNC=0 .
.TP
.B sync repos \fIname\fR
Dry run: list the configured GitHub Actions secret targets for a named
token without writing anything.  Shows
.I repo\fB:\fIsecret
pairs for push targets and a Trusted Publishing note for OIDC targets.
.SS Diagnostics
.TP
.B doctor\fR, \fBdr
Token health check.  Currently surfaces quick diagnostics; for a
comprehensive check use
.B tok expiring
and
.BR "tok sync gh" .
See also
.BR "flow doctor \-\-dot" .
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show the help screen.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a new GitHub PAT:
.RS
.nf
tok github
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a new NPM token:
.RS
.nf
tok npm
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a new PyPI token:
.RS
.nf
tok pypi
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check which tokens are expiring:
.RS
.nf
tok expiring
.fi
.RE
.PP
Rotate the default github-token:
.RS
.nf
tok rotate
.fi
.RE
.PP
Rotate a specific named token interactively:
.RS
.nf
tok MY_TOKEN_NAME \-\-refresh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Authenticate gh CLI with the stored GitHub token:
.RS
.nf
tok sync gh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Fan out a token to all configured GitHub Actions secrets:
.RS
.nf
tok sync push MY_TOKEN_NAME
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview what
.B sync push
would write (dry run):
.RS
.nf
tok sync repos MY_TOKEN_NAME
.fi
.RE
.PP
Store a new GitHub token without triggering auto-sync:
.RS
.nf
tok github \-\-no\-sync
.fi
.RE
.PP
Disable auto-sync persistently, then rotate:
.RS
.nf
FLOW_TOK_AUTOSYNC=0 tok rotate
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run the token health check:
.RS
.nf
tok doctor
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR sec (1),
.BR dots (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
