.\" Man page for v dispatcher (Vibe / Workflow Automation)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH V 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.12.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
v \- Workflow automation dispatcher (vibe coding mode)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B v
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.br
.B vibe
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B v
(also invokable as
.BR vibe )
is a workflow automation dispatcher covering testing, ecosystem coordination,
sprint planning, activity logging, and session management.
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B v
prints a short usage hint.
Unknown commands produce an error and suggest
.IR "v help" .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Testing
.TP
.B test\fR, \fBt
Run tests in auto-detect mode (delegates to
.IR pt ).
.TP
.B test watch\fR, \fBt w
Run tests in watch mode.
.TP
.B test cov\fR, \fBtest coverage\fR, \fBt c
Run tests with coverage report.
.TP
.B test scaffold\fR, \fBt s
Generate a test template for the current project.
.TP
.B test file \fIpath\fR, \fBt f \fIpath\fR
Run tests for a specific file.
.TP
.B test docs\fR, \fBt d
Generate test documentation.
.SS Coordination
.TP
.B coord\fR, \fBc
Show ecosystem coordination overview.
.TP
.B coord sync
Sync the ecosystem.
.TP
.B coord status
Ecosystem dashboard.
.TP
.B coord deps
Dependency graph.
.TP
.B coord release
Coordinate a release across the ecosystem.
.SS Planning
.TP
.B plan\fR, \fBp
Show the current sprint.
.TP
.B plan sprint
Sprint management.
.TP
.B plan roadmap
View the roadmap.
.TP
.B plan add
Add a task.
.TP
.B plan backlog
View the backlog.
.SS Activity Logging
These subcommands delegate to the
.B workflow
command.
.TP
.B log\fR, \fBl
Show recent activity log.
.TP
.B log today
Show today's log.
.TP
.B log started
Log session start.
.SS Direct Command Aliases
.TP
.B dash\fR, \fBd
Open the project dashboard (delegates to
.IR dash ).
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBs
Show project status (delegates to
.IR status ).
.TP
.B health
Run a combined system health check.
.SS Session Management
.TP
.B start\fR, \fBbegin
Start a new work session (delegates to
.IR startsession ).
.TP
.B end\fR, \fBstop
End the current work session (delegates to
.IR endsession ).
.TP
.B morning\fR, \fBgm
Run the morning routine (delegates to
.IR pmorning ).
.TP
.B night\fR, \fBgn
Run the night routine (delegates to
.IR pnight ).
.TP
.B progress\fR, \fBprog
Check progress (delegates to
.IR progress_check ).
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show built-in help.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run tests (auto-detect framework):
.RS
.nf
v test
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run tests in watch mode:
.RS
.nf
v test watch
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the project dashboard:
.RS
.nf
v dash
.fi
.RE
.PP
View the current sprint:
.RS
.nf
v plan
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sync the ecosystem using the full command name:
.RS
.nf
vibe coord sync
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR cc (1),
.BR prompt (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
