.\" Man page for wt dispatcher (Git Worktree Management)
.\" Generated: June 2026
.TH WT 1 "June 2026" "flow-cli 7.10.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wt \- Git worktree management dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wt
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wt
is a smart dispatcher for managing Git worktrees.
It provides creation, listing, cleanup, and status inspection of worktrees
stored under a configurable base directory (default:
.IR ~/.git-worktrees/ ).
.PP
When called without arguments,
.B wt
shows a formatted overview of all worktrees with branch name, status,
Claude session indicator, and path.
When called with an unknown argument that is not a recognized subcommand,
.B wt
treats it as a project-name filter and displays only matching worktrees.
Unrecognized subcommands also pass through to
.B git worktree
directly.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Overview and Listing
.TP
.B (none)
Display a formatted table of all worktrees showing branch, status
(active, merged, stale, main), Claude session indicator, and path.
.TP
.B \fIfilter\fR
Display only worktrees whose project name matches
.IR filter .
.TP
.B list\fR, \fBls\fR, \fBl
Raw
.I git worktree list
output.
.TP
.B status\fR, \fBst
Detailed view showing disk size, merge status, and per-worktree health.
.SS Create and Move
.TP
.B create \fIbranch\fR, \fBadd \fIbranch\fR, \fBc \fIbranch\fR
Create a new worktree at
.I $FLOW_WORKTREE_DIR/<project>/<branch>
for
.IR branch .
If the branch does not yet exist locally,
.B git worktree add -b
is used to create it.
.TP
.B move\fR, \fBmv
Move the current branch into a worktree.
Equivalent to running
.I wt create
for the current branch.
Protected branches (main, master, dev) cannot be moved.
.SS Cleanup
.TP
.B clean
Run
.I git worktree prune
to remove stale worktree references.
.TP
.B prune\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
Comprehensive cleanup: prunes stale references, then finds and optionally
removes worktrees for merged feature/bugfix/hotfix branches.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.B --dry-run\fR, \fB-n
Show what would be removed without making changes.
.TP
.B --force\fR, \fB-f
Skip confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B --branches\fR, \fB-b
Also delete the merged branches after removing their worktrees.
.RE
.SS Remove
.TP
.B remove \fIpath\fR, \fBrm \fIpath\fR
Remove the worktree at
.IR path .
.SS Help
.TP
.B help\fR, \fBh\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-h
Show built-in help.
.SH PASSTHROUGH
Any subcommand not listed above is passed directly to
.BR "git worktree" :
.RS
.nf
wt lock <path>    -> git worktree lock <path>
wt unlock <path>  -> git worktree unlock <path>
wt repair         -> git worktree repair
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FLOW_WORKTREE_DIR
Base directory for worktrees. Default:
.IR ~/.git-worktrees .
New worktrees are created at
.IR $FLOW_WORKTREE_DIR/<project>/<branch> .
.SH EXAMPLES
Show all worktrees:
.RS
.nf
wt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Filter to show only flow-cli worktrees:
.RS
.nf
wt flow
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a worktree for a feature branch:
.RS
.nf
wt create feature/auth
.fi
.RE
.PP
Prune merged worktrees (dry run first):
.RS
.nf
wt prune --dry-run
wt prune --branches
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove a specific worktree:
.RS
.nf
wt remove ~/.git-worktrees/myproject/feature-auth
.fi
.RE
.PP
Move current branch to a worktree:
.RS
.nf
wt move
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flow (1),
.BR cc (1),
.BR g (1)
.SH AUTHOR
DT
